Alright, continuous integration testing
is a very important thing to do when
you're actively developing projects like
this. And what we're gonna do in this
video is take a look at CircleCI. Now
this is a completely free service that
we can use for integration builds. The
folks over a CircleCI give us a
basically a docker container that will
run and it hooks up to GitHub very
seamlessly and it will build our
projects for us and if we check in
something's bad we'll get an email on it. So pretty pretty cool stuff. So I'm gonna
go over to the website now and show
you. I'm gonna take that project that
I forked earlier just like you can. So go
ahead and fork the code and then work in
that and as you commit, now that we have
tests in place, as you commit every time
a commit happens,
CircleCI is gonna do a build and if
any of your tests happen to fail, you're
going to get an email on it. And of
course you wanna be running your tests
and make sure everything is right
before you check in. So you shouldn't get
any failing builds but it's a really nice
safety net to have in place to have
continuous integration builds going. And
this is something that development teams
do all the time. It's really considered
the best practice to have a continuous
integration build server going for
a development shop. So I am showing you,
I'm trying to show you best practices in
this. CircleCI is completely free so you
can now utilize it for the rest of
this course and get your own continuous
integration builds going. There is also
TravisCI. That's a very popular option
too and it is also free. CircleCI right
now seems to have a little more attraction
and community. I see a lot of people that
are migrating over from Travis to Circle. So that's why I'm using Circle and
it works nicely. I'm very
happy with it. I've been CircleCI for
a while and it works out great. So I'm
gonna jump over to IntelliJ now or
actually the web and show you how to set
up CircleCI and get your own continuous
integration builds going. Okay
earlier in the course I showed you how
to fork a source repository so I'm
hoping you're working within GitHub.
CircleCI is designed to work
specifically with GitHub. The integration
is quite nice. So what I have here is
I've got the
that fork up here and we wanna come into
CircleCI and we can go ahead and login
and it is going to leverage your
GitHub account. So under the covers, it's
going to be using OAuth to work with
GitHub. So you can sign in using your
same GitHub
credentials and now you're gonna be
asked to authorize CircleCI to your
GitHub account. So I'm gonna go ahead
and authorize CircleCI to work with
GitHub. And it's asking me for my
password. And we see CircleCI
loads up and we see that I get a list
of all the projects that I have
authorized inside my GitHub account. And
what we wanna do is take on this. I'm
not gonna do everything that I have
in my GitHub account but I do wanna
get the spring5-recipe-app up and
cooking. So I've deselected the other
ones and I am going to say Follow and
Build that. And what's gonna happen
inside CircleCI is it's going to go out
and run a build for that. So you can see
that I've also linked this account to my
springframeworkguru account and we're
getting build information from that and
we're also getting this to run. So you
can actually come in and see it run and
see that's going through and doing a
number of steps. And CircleCI is
pretty impressive. It's smart enough to
go out and build a project. It simply
detects that you're already doing a
Maven build. So it's automatically going
to configure everything for us and in
the background, what it's doing is it's
running a basically I Maven inside of
a docker container and you can see that
it's going offline and now we can
see that it's going through downloading
all the stuff that we need. So it's
downloading all the Maven dependencies.
So this is gonna take longer
because it is downloading to the world.
And just as a reminder all these jars
that you see it downloading right now,
those are all going to be in your local Maven cache under your home
folder .m2/repository. This
is where you can see all the Maven
artifacts that are stored locally on
your machine. But in this case it does
have to go out and download all those. And what I'm gonna do right now is
pause this and then we'll take a look at
the build when it's all done.
Okay our build has completed. You can see
here it does go through several
steps. One is bring down the dependencies,
saves cache and then also comes over
here to the integration test. And we can
see here that we did have a BUILD
SUCCESS and this is what's checked out
the root of the project. So we can scroll
up and you see a lot of downloading
activity. Then as we scroll further up we
will eventually get to the test output. So we can see here that we have the
one test that did run zero failures, zero
errors. So exactly what we want. So if you
come over to your User Settings, you can
see that you are connected to GitHub.
Optionally you can use Bitbucket, Google
with this, you can see your build history
which is quite nice. So this is again
bringing up my build histories too. So
what's really nice about CircleCI is if you do follow branching that
I've been doing, it will automatically
pick up that branch. So if you branch
from master to something else,
CircleCI is gonna automatically pick
that up. And what I really like about is
if you do branch and encounter an error,
you're gonna get an email from CircleCI saying that your your build fails. So
this is a really really good habit to
get into using. A couple other things I'd
like to show you here, if you come down
here you do see an option to Add
Containers and what a container is,
CircleCI is going to limit you to one
container at a time. If you had a very
busy project team you could add in
additional containers and we really
don't need that here. Especially for you
being a student. One container is gonna be fine. What's going to happen is if
you're busy doing check-ins and like you
should be doing small incremental
check-ins,
effectively you're gonna have one
build running at a time. So any follow and
check-ins if you did two check-ins or no
check in before that build completed,
what CircleCI is gonna do is put it
in a build queue. So when that that built
completes, you're gonna get the next
one will automatically start when
it's done. So really no need to
purchase additional containers from
CircleCI. I think this gives us
capabilities. I'm only running with one
container on everything that I'm
doing. So you're perfectly fine there. Now
I do wanna show you how this is
working. So if you come over here, I'm
going back into GitHub and you go into
the settings of your project and take a
look at Webhooks and you can see in
that CircleCI automatically configured
a webhook for you. So that's how it's
going to know. So the moment you check in,
this webhook from GitHub is gonna
fire over to CircleCI and initiate the
build for you. And I think we also got a
Deploy keys. So CircleCI also created
its own SSH key back to GitHub. So these
are just a couple things I want you to
be aware of because this is how
GitHub has been integrated with CircleCI so it gets an SSH key so it can securely
check things out from your repository. And then this web hook here,
the second you commit your code up to
GitHub, that webhook will fire and CircleCI
will go out and build right away. Let's see I think I can trigger build from
right here. Try making a white source.
So I'm going right in GitHub and making that
change and I'm gonna commit right to
GitHub and now that's committed and
we've come over here and because I see
how fast I switched over and it's
already building. So that's
already fired off and it's building. It's
gonna go ahead and build that so you
can see just how fast your builds
are gonna get triggered. They happen
like right away when you check-in. So
hopefully you guys go through and
configure this. I will be using CircleCI
for the remainder of this course and
will definitely be seeing a lot more
testing.